# Tetrahymena thermophila growth curve data
used in in Fronhofer et al. (https://doi.org/10.1101/485946)

S8 of Fronhofer et al. (https://doi.org/10.1101/485946):
We used 7 strains of the freshwater ciliate Tetrahymena thermophila (strains: SB3539, B2086.2, A*III, CU438.1, A*V, CU427.4, CU428.2) originally obtained from the Cornell Tetrahymena Stock Center. These strains were kept for maintenance and during the experiments in protist medium (1 g dried Lactuca sativa powder in 1.6 L Volvic water) with Serratia marcescens as a food resource. Growth experiments were carried out in 20 mL vials (Sarstedt) at 20°C. 6 replicated growth curves of each Tetrahymena strain were started with 250 µL of protist culture (4 d old, at equilibrium) in 20 mL bacterized medium (10% Serratia marcescens from a 3 d old culture that had reached growth experiment was followed over the course of 2 weeks and 2 mL of medium was replaced in each microcosm three times per week with freshly bacterized new medium. Data was collected using video recording and analysis. At regular intervals (twice per day for the first two days, subsequently once per day or once every 2–3 days) the microcosms were sampled and the samples were placed on a counting slide (height: 0.5 mm) under a stereomicroscope (Perfex Pro 10) at a 2-fold magnification. Using a microscope camera (Perfex SC38800) videos were recorded for a total duration of 10 s at a rate of 15 frames per second imaging a volume of 31 µL. Videos were subsequently analysed using a customized version of the ‘bemovi’ package (Pennekamp et al., 2015) in R.
